# ALLIN
ALLIN - (Annotation of sequence aLignment and structuraL ProteIn visualizatioN) is a web interface to generate an interactive HTML web page for the simultaneously visualization of annotated protein sequences alignment and 3D structures or homology models of the related proteins. 

The physiological, functional, and structural properties of proteins and their pathogenic variants can be summarized using many tools. The amount of information relating to a single protein is large, often spread among different sources that require different programs to access. It is not always easy to select, simultaneously visualize, and compare specific properties of different proteins. On the other hand, comparing members of the same protein family could suggest conserved properties or highlight significant differences. We have thus developed a web interface, called ALLIN (Annotation of Sequence ALignment and structuraL ProteIn visualizatioN) to generate a web page for the simultaneous visualization of multi-sequence protein alignments, including comments and annotations, and the related three-dimensional protein structures. The distinctive feature of this interface is that it permits the inclusion of comments and coloring of residues in the alignment section, in accordance with a user-defined color code, allowing a quick overview of specific properties. The interface does not require training or coding expertise. The final result is a unique “memo” web page that combines data from different sources, with the flexibility to highlight only the information of interest. The output can provide a general overview of the state of art of a protein family that is easily shared among researchers with different backgrounds. Protein regions or single residues of interest can be quickly visualized to be analyzed in more detail using dedicated programs and new data can be conveniently added as it emerges. We believe the ALLIN tool can be useful for all scientists working on the structure-function analysis of proteins, in particular on those involved in human genetic diseases.

The tool is described in the following publication:

Picollo & Pusch, ALLIN: a tool for annotation of a protein alignment combined with structural
visualization. 2024. J Gen Physiol, doi: 10.1085/jgp.202413635

Please cite the publication when you utilize ALLIN.
